In this lecture, you'll see how to configure IPv6 link local addresses with a lab demo.
The scenario that we have is we have an existing network which is already being configured with IPv4.
And we're going to migrate that to a dual stack IPv4 and IPv6 network.
Another engineer has already been tasked with configuring R2 and R3, and it's our job to
configure R1. So let's go on
there now. If I do a show ip interface brief,
you can see we've already got their IPv4 addresses on there.
If I ping 10.0.1.2, that's the IPv4 address over on R2 and that's just fine as well..
If I do a show ipv6 interface brief, you can see that IPv6 is not being configured on here yet.
So first thing I need to do is to enable IPv6 unicast routing and then I'll configure my IPv6
addresses on the router.
So, let's check and see what I need to configure. On fa0/0,
2001:DB8:0:0.
Actually, to make it easier, I will minimize my {utty window so that I can see what the IP addresses are.
It's pretty hard to remember them.
So I'll go to interface to fa2/0 and give it IPv6 address
2001:DB8:0:0::1.
It's a /64 standard and on interface fa0/0,
it's IPv6 address is
2001:DB8:0:1::1/64.
And I think these interfaces were no shut already because I had IPv4 already enabled on there.
Let's do
a no shut anyway just to make sure. So I'll also do that on interface fa2/0.
And now I will do a show ipv6 interface brief and you see that I do have my IPv6 addresses on there now.
So there is the global unicast address I just configured on fa0/0 and the address on fa2/0
and you can see that link
local addresses have been automatically generated using the EUI-64 addresses.
So as soon as I configure a global unicast address in the interface, it's enabled for IPv6.
So it gets that link local address. But it's not very convenient or easy to remember an EUI-64 address
so I will overwrite this with a manually specified link local address.
So I'll go back to global config and on interface fa0/0,
I'll give it IPv6 address FE80::1 because this is R1.
I don't need to specify the subnet mask, I just say link local.
It's always a /64. And also for fa2/0,
I'm going to hit the up arrow a couple of times and I'm going to give it exactly the same link
local address.
That's fine because it's only locally significant on that particular interface.
OK, so that is my configuration done on there.
Now let's check that R2 and R3 are already configured.
So on R2, I'll do a show ipv6 interface brief and I can see that that's being configured with
the global unicast addresses and the engineer there has given it link local address
FE80::1 on both interfaces.
And if I look on R3, I'll do a show ipv6 interface brief.
There I can see the same thing.
It's being configured with the global unicast addresses and we're using FE80::3
for the link local.
So if I go onto R1, I will be able to ping R2. Let's just check that connectivity is working okay
with our global unicast address.
So I'll ping 2001:DB8:0:1::2
2001:DB8:0:1::2
for R2 and that is working just fine.
Now, if I ping it on its link local address, I'll ping FE80::2.
And what's going to happen now is the router asks me, which is the output interface? Because the link
local address beginning with FE80 on fa0/0 and fa2/0 as well,
so the router doesn't know which interface to send the traffic out of. You don't have this problem when you send
to a global unicast address.
For example, when I sent to 2001:DB8:0:1::2, the router knows, well that is reachable
out of interface fa0/0, so it sends it out there. But with the link local, all the interfaces are configured with
the same prefix so the router doesn't know which interface to send traffic out of.
So in this case we're sending this towards R2.
So the output interface is fa0/0 and I can see that that works just fine.
But if I try it, ping R3 on its link local address, well R1 is not directly connected to it.
So if I say ping FE80::3, which is a link local interface or R3 and
interface fa0/0 which points towards R3, this is going to fail. R2 does not forward
packet on.
It's only valid on the local interface.
OK, so that was link local addresses.
In the next lecture, you'll learn about SLAAC, Stateless Address AutoConfiguration.